# isoflavoneextraction

Project Description:
Resource sustainability concerns keep increasing as natural materials are used continuously without reclamation plans. Efforts have been made toward finding sustainable feedstocks to yield products derived from natural materials with competitive economics and properties compared to existing petroleum-based products. However, there has not been an established methodology for commercializing the extraction of natural chemicals from renewable sources. This work examined soybeans as a potential bio-based feedstock to generate isoflavones at the commercial scale to fulfill current demands and potential applications. The isoflavones content in soybeans has proven beneficial in the nutraceuticals industry for their anti-inflammatory and cancer inhibition properties and in the materials sector due to their inherent chemical functionality and thermal resistance. Currently, soy isoflavone extractions have only been optimized at a lab-scale with pre-defined pathways. We present a superstructure-based framework to screen isoflavone extraction methods and assess the viability of implementing the process at a commercial scale. This framework simultaneously compares alternative extraction and purification technologies using mixed-integer non-linear programming optimization to determine the most economical pathway. Our analysis has also shown that internal material recovery greatly enhances the viability of extracting isoflavones from soybean meal commercially by reducing the annual operating cost and environmental footprint. Therefore, a superstructure optimization framework is a powerful tool for systematically comparing extraction pathways and accessing their feasibility and commercial viability. The successful implementation of commercial-scale extraction of isoflavone has tremendous potential for generating additional revenue for the U.S. Soy Farmers by introducing isoflavones into the bio-based polymers and composites market and supplementing the value-chain of isoflavone-containing commercial products such as dietary supplements, cosmetics, and nutraceuticals. Similar works can be applied to extract other natural materials from renewable feedstocks and increase the production of bio-based products.
